+++
title = "Vector Queries"
description = "Dgraph automatically generates GraphQL queries for each vector index that you define in your schema. There are two types of queries generated for each index."
weight = 1
[menu.main]
    parent = "graphql-queries"
    identifier = "vector-queries"
+++

How to use vector queries to fetch data from Dgraph.

Dgraph automatically generates GraphQL queries for each vector index that you define in your schema. There are two types of queries generated.

Example

```graphql
type User {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
    name_v: [Float!] @embedding @search(by: ["hnsw(metric: euclidean, exponent: 4)"])
}
```

With the above schema, there would be two queries generated for `User`.

The auto-generated `querySimilar<Object>ByEmbedding` query allows us to run semantic (aka similarity) search using the vector index specified in our schema.

```graphql
getSimilar<Object>ByEmbedding(
    by: vector_predicate, 
    topK: n, 
    vector: searchVector): [User]
```

For example in order to find top 3 users with names similar to a given user name embedding the following query function can be used. 

```graphql  
querySimilarUserByEmbedding(by: title_v, topK: 3, vector: [0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5]) {
        id
        name_v
        vector_distance
     }
```
The results obtained for this query includes the 3 closest Users ordered by vector_distance. The vector_distance is the Euclidean distance between the name_v embedding vector and the input vector used in our query.

Note: you can omit vector_distance predicate in the query, the result will still be ordered by vector_distance.

The distance metric used is specified in the index creation. 

Similarly, the auto-generated `querySimilar<Object>ById` query allows us to search for similar objects to an existing object, given it’s Id. using the  function.

```graphql
getSimilar<Object>ById(
    by: vector_predicate, 
    topK: n, 
    id: userID):  [User]
```

For example the following query searches for top 3 users whose names are most similar to the name of the user with id "0xef7".

```graphql
querySimilarUserById(by: title_v, topK: 3, id: "0xef7") {
    id
    name_v
    vector_distance
}
```

Note: Again, vector_distance predicate in the query is optional.

You can look at all the queries that are generated by using any
GraphQL client such as Insomnia or GraphQL playground.