+++
date = "2017-03-20T22:25:17+11:00"
title = "Tracing"
weight = 6
[menu.main]
    parent = "admin"
+++

Dgraph is integrated with [OpenCensus](https://opencensus.io/zpages/) to collect distributed traces from the Dgraph cluster.

Trace data is always collected within Dgraph. You can adjust the trace sampling rate for Dgraph queries using the `--trace` [superflag's]({{< relref "deploy/cli-command-reference.md" >}}) `ratio` option when running Dgraph Alpha nodes. By default, `--trace ratio`  is set to 0.01 to trace 1% of queries.

## Examining Traces with zPages

The most basic way to view traces is with the integrated trace pages.

OpenCensus's [zPages](https://opencensus.io/zpages/) are accessible via the Zero or Alpha HTTP port at `/z/tracez`.

## Examining Traces with Jaeger

Jaeger collects distributed traces and provides a UI to view and query traces across different services. This provides the necessary observability to figure out what is happening in the system.

Dgraph can be configured to send traces directly to a Jaeger collector with the `trace` superflag's `jaeger` option. For example, if the Jaeger collector is running on `http://localhost:14268`, then pass this option to the Dgraph Zero and Dgraph Alpha instances as `--trace jaeger=http://localhost:14268`.

See [Jaeger's Getting Started docs](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/getting-started/) to get up and running with Jaeger.

### Setting up multiple Dgraph clusters with Jaeger

Jaeger allows you to examine traces from multiple Dgraph clusters. To do this, use the `--collector.tags` on a Jaeger collector to set custom trace tags. For example, run one collector with `--collector.tags env=qa` and then another collector with `--collector.tags env=dev`. In Dgraph, set the `--trace jaeger` option in the Dgraph QA cluster to the first collector and set this option in the Dgraph Dev cluster to the second collector.
You can run multiple Jaeger collector components for the same single Jaeger backend (e.g., many Jaeger collectors to a single Cassandra backend). This is still a single Jaeger installation but with different collectors customizing the tags per environment.

Once you have this configured, you can filter by tags in the Jaeger UI. Filter traces by tags matching `env=dev`:

{{% load-img "/images/jaeger-ui.png" "Jaeger UI" %}}

Every trace has your custom tags set under the “Process” section of each span:

{{% load-img "/images/jaeger-server-query.png" "Jaeger Query" %}}

Filter traces by tags matching `env=qa`:

{{% load-img "/images/jaeger-json.png" "Jaeger JSON" %}}

{{% load-img "/images/jaeger-server-query-2.png" "Jaeger Query Result" %}}

### Setting up Jaeger locally
Requirements:
* Docker: Make sure you have Docker installed on your system. You can download and install Docker [here](docker.com).

**Step 1:** Start Jaeger with Docker
Jaeger provides a ready-to-use `all-in-one` Docker image. Use the following command to start Jaeger locally:
bash

```sh
docker run -d --name jaeger \ 
-e COLLECTOR_ZIPKIN_HTTP_PORT=9411 \ 
-p 5775:5775/udp \ 
-p 6831:6831/udp \ 
-p 6832:6832/udp \ 
-p 5778:5778 \ 
-p 16686:16686 \ 
-p 14268:14268 \ 
-p 9411:9411 \ 
jaegertracing/all-in-one:latest
```

This command starts a Docker container named `jaeger` and exposes the necessary ports for the Jaeger web interface and communication with services.

**Step 2:** Access the Jaeger Web Interface
After running the above command, you can access the Jaeger web interface in your web browser at `http://localhost:16686`. Here, you will be able to view and analyze traces from your applications.

**Step 3:** Instrument Your Application
To have Jaeger trace requests in your application, you need to instrument it. The exact method depends on the programming language and framework you are using. Typically, you will need to add a Jaeger client to your application.
* Example with Python and Flask: You can use the jaeger-client library to instrument your Flask application. Refer to the documentation for language-specific details.

**Step 4:** Send Tracing Data to Jaeger
Ensure that your application is configured to send tracing data to the Jaeger agent running in the Docker container. This usually involves configuring the agent endpoint and collection service in your application, according to the tracing library you are using.

**Step 5:** Visualize Traces
After setting up instrumentation and sending data, you can use the Jaeger web interface at `http://localhost:16686` to visualize and analyze traces generated by your application.

To learn more about Jaeger, see [Jaeger's Deployment Guide](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/deployment/).